TODO.txt
  CalendarX 0.9.2(stable)  October 22 2009
  (last modified for CalendarX 0.9.2)
by +lupa+ (lupaz on sf.net, lupa at zurven dot com)
Released under the GPL (see LICENSE.txt)

CalendarX by Lupa Zurven (lupa at zurven dot com)
  A metacalendar for Plone.
This ToDo list refers to goals for the current branch, and is not a more
  general ToDo wishlist for CalendarX in future branches.  Go see the
  CalendarX.org website for more complete wishlist ideas for the future
  of CalendarX.


ToDo list as seen at launch for CalendarX 0.9.2(stable)
1. rout the mouseover display bugs.  there are several where the calendar
  cells are not properly highlighted when you mouseover an event, especially
  events that span two days or two months or differences between the regular
  events and the ones in the "continuing" listing on weekbyhour and
  multimonth views.  non-critical (exist in 0.6.6 too) but frustrating.
2. test everything else too
3. document how to do everything in Plone 3
4. build an egg for Pypi
5. get recurring events working (via vs.event)




ToDo list as seen at launch for CalendarX 0.6.6(stable)
1. Done.  Only bugfixes on this branch from this point on.  And any more
  translations that get submitted.  And a Manual revisions too.

ToDo list as seen at launch for CalendarX 0.6.5(stable)
1. Done.  Only bugfixes on this branch from this point on.  And any more
  translations that get submitted.  And a Manual revisions too.

ToDo list as seen at launch for CalendarX 0.6.4(rc1)
1. Solicit more translations/localizations (.po files).  Please add yours!
2. Done.  Only bugfixes on this branch from this point on.  And any more
  translations that get submitted.  And a new Manual too.

ToDo list as seen at launch for CalendarX 0.6.3(beta)
1. Solicit more translations/localizations (.po files).  Please add yours!
2. Done.  Only bugfixes on this branch from this point on.  And any more
  translations that get submitted.  And a new Manual too.

ToDo list as seen at launch for CalendarX 0.6.2(alpha)
1. Fix the display bug in multimonth view (see HISTORY.txt).
2. Everything down below.

ToDo list as seen at launch for CalendarX 0.6.0(alpha)
1. Solicit more translations/localizations (.po files).  Please add yours!
2. Hopefully no more i18n changes to templates, scripts, although I might
   have missed some.  Please look around for me!
3. Test more, cleanup some code cruft here or there, everywhere.
4. Extend the new Group calendaring aids added in 0.6.0 (anybody using these
   yet?), and fixup the documentation for that.
5. More small feature additions as deemed useful and non-intrusive and
   unlikely to cause heartbreak and/or instability.
6. That's all.  This 0.6 branch is mostly just i18n on top of 0.4 branch
   plus a few nice requested features.
7. Move i18n and new view features into the 0.5 branch as well as here.




