Meet bitsyblog: bitsyblog doesn't do much, but it could do less

Why yet another blogging app? Because I wanted to blog from
the command line and emacs and stubbornly decided it was easier
to write a new blog than to write a front-end script for 
wordpress

No, really!  In my cursory survey of blogging software, there
wasn't anything out there that seemed RESTful and minimalist.
I don't want a blog that does much;  I want to throw content (a
little or much) on the web quickly and in the way I want to do
it.  I also dislike that most blogging software seems monolithic.
From the "less is better" school of thought, I tend to believe
that a piece of software should do one thing and one thing well

What does bitsyblog do?
* blogging.  Only blogging
* (...and setting user preferences)
* (...and auth snuck in their too)

What doesn't bitsyblog do?
* commenting
* tagging
* uploading/managing files
* turn all your text emoticons to animated gifs
* all of these could be done with WSGI middleware

Isn't WSGI middleware just another way of building a monolith?  Not if its
done right.  If your app is dependent on middleware, or vice 
versa, then yes.  Commenting on a blog post is the same as commmenting
on a wiki page.  

But what if the user wants to delete their blog post?
Should the comments get deleted as well?  This points to a 
possible coupling between the app and the client.  The solution
of course is to not allow users to delete blog posts.
(Incidentally, using HTTP's DELETE could be used to solve this.  Too bad this
isn't doable in today's browsers)

So how does bitsyblog work?
* webob and paste are used to process and serve HTTP
* restructured text is used for blog formatting
* auth is built on paste.auth

What is next for bitsyblog?  Feeds and some cleanup and little details.
Then middleware (probably commenting first).

What is up with the mice?  I caught them eating cheese in the cheeseshop,
so I put them to work in my logo.

How do I get bitsyblog?  Go to http://bitsyblog.biz/
Also, its on the cheeseshop

Your blog probably doesn't do much ... but could it do less?
